You just saw the architecture of
the continuous bag
of words model and
the vectors and matrices that are
involved to make
calculations on it.
Now, I'll introduce you to
the dimensions of these
vectors and matrices.
Here's the architecture of
the neural network again.
First, the input layer is
represented by lowercase x,
a column vector with v rows,
where capital v is the
size of the vocabulary.
To get the values that will
be stored in the hidden layer,
you first calculate
the weighted sum of
the values from the input
layer and add the bias.
So W_1 times x plus b_1,
and I'll call the result z_1.
Lowercase h refers to
the column of values stored
in the hidden layer.
To get h, you pass the values of
z_1 into a ReLU activation.
So in terms of dimensions, W_1,
the weighting matrix
between the input layer and
the hidden layer has
n rows and v columns,
where n is the size of
the word embeddings,
b_1 the bias vector for
the hidden layer has one row
for each neuron in
the hidden layer,
so n in total.
So when you multiply W_1 by x,
and add the bias vector b_1,
you get a column vector with
n rows and passing it
through ReLu preserves
the dimensions.
So as expected, the
hidden layer is
represented by a column
vector with n rows.
Next, to get the values
of the output layer,
you first need to calculate
the weighted sum of
the values from the hidden
layer and add the bias.
So W_2 times h plus b_2,
which I'll call z_2.
The values in z_2 are sometimes
referred to as logits.
To get the output y hats,
you pass the values of
the z_2 logits through a
softmax activation function.
Again, you'll see details of
the activation functions
later in the lecture.
W_2, the weighting matrix
between the hidden layer and
the output layer has
v rows and n columns,
b_2, the bias vector for
the output layer has one
row for each output neuron.
So v rows, when you
multiply W_2 by the vector
for the hidden layer h and
add the bias vector b_2,
you get a column
vector with v rows.
Again, no change when you
pass it through
softmax activation.
So finally, you get the outputs
column vector y hat with v zeros.
If you had a situation where,
instead of column vectors,
you're working with row vectors,
then you'll need to perform
the calculations with
transposed matrices
and inverted terms
in the matrix multiplication.
So for instance,
instead of calculating
h equals W_1 times x plus b_1,
as you did with the
column vectors.
If x and b_1 are row vectors,
then you would calculate
x times W_1 transpose
plus b_1 to get z_1 and
then h as a row vector.
Next, I'll show you how to
use the neural network with
batches of several examples
instead of just one
example at a time.